>> Richard Feldman: We can also
write a type alias for our message.
So we could say, when we've got
our view that's taking a model and
then returning some HTML.
Which includes an onClick that
has one of these messages,
we can use messages to refer to that.
So if we have, for example, a slightly
different UI that's got something
like a button that you can
press to clear everything.
So you can click it, it's going to say
onClick, description = ClickedClear.
Data = ALL, so it's like clear all
button and then the text is just an X.
If I were to click that,
then it would send that message to model,
now if I wanted to I could also say,
you know what?
We don't need this data field here,
I mean, there's only one sort of way that
you can like clear this thing,
which is to clear all of them.
We don't actually need to
have this redundant field,
I'm just going to make my
message type be a string.
I'm not going to have
it be a record at all,
I'm just going to say onClick
ClickedClear, that string.
That's totally allowed if you want, Elm
does not enforce a particular format for
your message type.
It says you can choose whatever
type you want for your message.
What it doesn't force is that
you have to be consistent.
Whatever format you pick for your message,
you have to use that
throughout your program.
And the reason for that is that view and
update have to communicate.
Whatever message type
that view is producing,
that's the same message type
that update has to consume.
Because it's going to get past that by
the runtimes, so those have to agree.
Whatever format you choose has to be
consistent between view and update.
Because of that,
HTML is actually a parameterized type, and
it's parameterized on
the type of the message.
So view is annotated as Model, and
it takes a model as its argument,
and then it returns Html String.
Which basically means a virtual dom node,
which produces string of messages.
And the reason that this produces string
of messages is because that's what we've
defined as our message type.
By virtue of the fact that we put
a string here and passed it to onClick.
>> Richard Feldman: And correspondingly,
this one up here is view that takes
the Model and returns Html Msg.
Where Msg is that type alias of
the record that we've defined previously.
>> Richard Feldman: Now if we want, we
could do a third type, we could say, like,
this one is Html Msg,
which has the record.
This one's Html String,
which has the string for onClick,
right here in the middle, sure,
we could have Html Float if we want.
That's totally allowed, again,
you can pick whatever format you want,
but you have to be consistent.
So if this is what we're doing for view,
that means our update function is going
to take a float as its first argument.
Here, update's going to take
a string as its first argument.
And here, update's going to have to
take a message as its first argument.
And if those disagree,
if the parameterized type.
Or sorry,
the type parameter on Html doesn't agree
with the first argumentative update.
The program won't compile,
Elm will insist on those being consistent.
Any questions about the relationship
between the Html type parameter view and
update?
>> Speaker 2: Then we're
doing the update function and
we were doing the middle
case with the float.
Then we pass in like float for
that first argument?
>> Richard Feldman: Exactly.
>> Speaker 2: Or update?
>> Richard Feldman: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.